All right.
So you've built your fantastic out you've tested it thoroughly for bugs you've shared it with friends
and family and you've got feedback from them and they all say it needs to be shared with the world.
So you're ready to upload your app to Google Play to do that you will need a Google developer's account
and the paid version of which costs $25 and a great place to start is developers dot Google dot com.
From there click the Android link if the website has left has changed since this video was made you
can just go directly to developer dot Android dot com.
And there's actually a lot of really useful stuff to help you make your apps better and look better
as well.
So I would thoroughly recommend spending a bit of time on developing the Android to come to know what
Google considers great looking and well functioning apps when you're convinced the app is ready though.
We're going to jump over to the developer console again if that link isn't there.
Just go directly to play dot Google dot com slash apps slash publish and then click add new application.
At this point if you haven't already signed up as a Google Play developer you'll be taking three steps
to do that.
And then once you've paid the fee and complete the process you'll be able to add your new application
and I'm actually going to add the currency converter app to take us back to the very beginning of the
course and the first app that we made so we can start by uploading the AP K or preparing the store listing
I'm going to upload the AP K IBK is short for Android package and it's a single file that contains everything
that the Google Play store needs to publish your app.
We're going to start by uploading that and then we'll just see all the other settings that you need
to tweak to get your app published.
So we did that over in Android studio and we start by clicking the build variants button at the bottom
left there.
And we get a change from building a debug version of the app which we've been using so far to 8 release
version of the app.
So now Android studio will produce for us version of the app ready for release.
We do however need to prove that we and only we have the ability to publish and create future versions
of this app.
And we do that with a process called signing.
So in Android studio go to the build menu and then generate signed AP K and we're going to generate
a signed IBK from the app module.
And the key store is much like the DGM file that we used prove ownership of our AWOS instance.
So unless you've got an existing one we'll create a new file and we start by creating the keys to our
path paths so just where it's going to be stored on our machine.
I'm going to store it on the desktop and I'm going to call it currency converter key store.
You can of course store it wherever you like.
I'd recommend somewhere nice and secure.
Then I'm going to just use password for my password.
I'd honestly recommend again that you'd do something nice and complex that now that we've defined the
key store location and password.
We do the same for the key itself.
So I'll call this
currency converter key and I use the same password again.
I'd recommend you use a different one and I'll have the default validity of 25 years.
And then I'll just fill in the details of the certificates first and last name for possible organizational
unit.
I'll just use my name again and similarly for organization but of course if you do have a specific organization
you should use that.
Now Cambridge Cambridge UK.
All right.
That creates Yochi store which can contain multiple keys for different apps if you want.
And I specifically for this particular app currency converter and it gives the details of the certificate
as well.
And I'm going to choose to let Android studio remember those passwords.
It depends how secure your computer is as to whether or not you're happy to do that.
And we click next and we specify the password.
So again something nice and secure.
And we're going to generate our signed AP K default settings will work fine.
And then it will build that in exactly the same way that it does when you're running it on the simulator.
Except this time it will produce a final AP k file and there we go so it's generated the signed AP k
we'll reveal that in Finder.
And there it is right there in our app folder.
So I'm now going to go back over to Google Chrome click upload the first APJ to production and then
we'll just drop in the file that we've generated.
And that will then upload that analyze it and see if there are any issues with it before it can be published.
And there we go and see it's been imported it tells you how many devices it supports or excludes.
And that's all it takes to upload your AP k.
The rest is now just a matter of updating your store listing and the various details for your app.
So I'm sure you can come up with a short description of a full description that describes your well
doing things like screen shots.
It's a little bit more tricky.
So I'm going to show you how you can do that within Android studio itself.
So we'll get back over to the debug version and we'll run the app in the simulator.
And what I'm going to have to do is to get a screen shot directly from the simulator.
You can of course use many real devices to get screenshots as well but it can be convenient to get it
directly from the machine.
So there we go.
He's now running in the simulator if you will bring back some memories for you.
So to get a screenshot of that particular screen we simply press the camera button there and it takes
a little while but there we go.
As our lovely screen shot it it's nice and high quality as well.
So if we want see save that we just click save.
And for me I'll put it on the desktop itself and then we get back over to crime at a screenshot.
And upload that image.
Of course you can do the same thing for tablet screen sizes.
Android TV Android etc..
So that's how you develop screenshots very easily for your Google Play app and I'd recommend having
lots of screenshots to encourage people to look at your app and see very quickly what it does.
The next thing you need to upload is a high res icon and feature graphic.
Now that's something we need to develop for yourself.
Or you could simply pay someone to create.
You can do it very cheaply on a website such as five dot com or you could spend a little bit more money
and use something like freelancer dot com or 99 designs if you want something that looks a little more
professional.
Again you can use promo graphics and TV banners as well.
If you really want to go all out and upload a video screencast of your app is a great way to show people
what your app does before they have to download it.
So this can be a great thing to create and is quite easy to do as well.
Then we just use the various features of the answer is an app for game choose some categories so choose
business there.
And I think everyone can use this currency converter.
Then you can put in your web site and email address phone number if you like.
And a privacy policy.
Or you can leave that blank if don't store any user data as part of your app.
Then we'll go back to the top and save draft and then jump down to the next one you may have noticed
that on the content rating question below you needed to fill in a questionnaire.
So I'm not going to run through this whole process for you.
It's just a matter of answering honestly about what data your app could display.
The only place you really need to be careful is if you're intentionally allowing users to access the
Web for example and they could access any content through your apps and make sure to make that clear.
And then allow section there is pricing and distribution.
So if it's free everything's nice and simple if you want to have a paid up then you need to set up a
merchant account which is simply a matter of adding your bank account details and giving Google a way
to pay you then you can choose what will likely be all the countries for people to download your app.
Need to specify whether your app has ads or not.
Whether your app has an Android where Android TV or Android Auto component whether you want to opt into
these various user programs and confirming whether you're happy for Google Play marketing to occur that
we meet the Android content guidelines and acknowledging that your software application may be subject
to US export laws.
So again we'll save the giraffe there.
And then the final two sections there.
If you're using any in-app products then you add those there.
And similarly if you use any services and API such as cloud messaging in that billing etc. then you
can set those up there as well.
Then once you've gone through and filled in all of those sections you'll be able to publish the app
and within a few hours it should be live for the world to download.
The next step after publishing is of course letting me know on Twitter I'm tech at Robin I love to see
all of the apps that my students may not be very happy to tweet your app launch out to the world.
Once you've done that you'll probably be wanting a Web site for your app to be able to point people
towards on the web and maybe collect email addresses of those interested in your apps and services and
to better explain to people what your app does and that's exactly what I'm going to show you how to
create using the free hosting that comes with this course in the next section.